Okay,
this is Ron Shorn on Tuesday, June 1st, 1993, at the
University of Texas at Austin Astronomy
Department. And, well, to start off, why don't you
introduce yourself, give your full name. Okay, my
name is William Hamilton Jeffries. Actually, I'm
the third in that line that bears that name. And I'm
the Harlan J. Smith Professor of Astronomy,
Centennial Professor of Astronomy at the
University of Texas. OK. Just for the record, when
were you born and where? OK. Born 1940, July 8, New
Bedford, Massachusetts. OK. And when did you
first get interested in astronomy? Oh, when I was
quite young, probably around 10 or 11. What was the
thing? Was there a thing? Well, there were a couple
of incidents. My father, who is and was, of course,
at the time a clergyman, always was interested in
science, had taught at the Episcopal Academy
outside Philadelphia, where he had also gone to
school. And he was the chaplain there for a few
years during the war, Second World War, for those
of us that remember that sort of thing. And there
was a colleague of his named Bob Nethery,
N-E-A-T-H-E-R-Y, who was one of the science
teachers at that school and who also moonlighted
as a planetarium lecturer at the Fels Planetarium
in Philadelphia. And one day, I recall, I was just
thinking about this a few months ago, in fact, that
my father took me to see the planetarium show, and
he introduced me to his friend Bob Mithery after
the show, who then proceeded to show me how the
planetarium projector worked, which was quite
impressive for me at that age. So that was one of the
things. The other thing was that somebody, and I
don't recall who it was, gave me a book on astronomy
as a birthday present or a Christmas present. And
so I read it through and found it fascinating.
about the time that I decided that astronomy was
pretty interesting stuff, although I didn't
actually make up my mind to become an astronomer
until probably mid-teens. Where'd you go to
undergrad school? I went to Wesleyan University
in Connecticut,
worked for Charlie Gasteyer, who is now dead,
measuring plates, and
Leo Stern, I guess it was. Sterns? Was it Leo? Was
the director of the observatory, or was at the
observatory. And I actually came the year that
Thornton Page joined the faculty at Wesleyan as
the director of the observatory. What year was
that? That was 1958. What was your major? I majored
in astronomy. Took a bunch of physics. Spent a lot
of time in the observatory. worked for Heinz
Eichhorn. He got the first computer on campus, and
we learned how to program that by reading the
instruction manuals. Miles Standish was an
undergraduate at Wesleyan during that period of
time, had just graduated when that computer came,
and he went to Westland as a graduate student for
two years, took a master's degree in astronomy
while I was finishing up my bachelor's degree, so
we did this together pretty much. When did you
graduate? Graduated in 62. Okay, and where'd you
go to grad school? Went to Yale. Okay, why? Well,
because I was interested in sort of classical
aspects of astronomy. I'd done some astrometry
for my honors paper at Wesleyan, and Heinz
Eichhorn, whom I'd worked with fairly closely,
suggested that Yale would be a good place to go, and
in fact that was the only place I applied to. Good
thing they accepted it. When did you get your
Ph.D.? 65. And what was the topic of your thesis? I
studied some dynamical systems of two degrees of
freedom.
Okay, then it's time to get a job. So what did you do?
Well, to explain that, you've got to talk about
Yale, because I was at Yale when Harlan was there.
He left in 1963.
Of course, therefore, my first year was the year
that Harlan was still there. I remember the first
time I saw Harlan, he had this crew cut, and he
looked like a student. I thought he was just a
graduate student. I didn't realize that he was
about to become a director in a major observatory.
And Harlan, in fact, one of the first things he did
was to tell me that he had some there was this
interesting object, 3C273, and that he had access
to plates from the plate library at Harvard where,
of course, he'd gone to school. And so he got access
to those plates, said, you might want to measure
the proper motion of this object because it's very
strange and we don't know whether it's a galactic
object or extragalactic or what. I had access to a
plate measuring machine at Wesleyan and I
measured the plates and I did photometry on the
plates and
computed the proper motion of 36273 and found that
the proper motion was, as far as anybody could
tell, zero, which was a pretty good indication
that it wasn't too close by to us, certainly not a
neutron star or something like that.
Harlan then arranged for me to give a paper on this
at the first Texas symposium on relativistic
astrophysics and gravitational collapse, I
guess it was. I gave my paper and said that I thought
this object was at least such and such a number of
parsecs away. And somebody in the audience said,
how much is that in real units? Somebody else in the
audience shouted back, three times ten to the
eighteenth centimeters per parsec. Well, that
was a number I didn't have in my head in those days,
but I do now. Harlan also arranged for me to be one of
three American students during the summer of 1963
to get NATO scholarships to go to Turkey to attend a
series of courses on mostly dynamical type
subjects. George Kantopoulos was there. Sir
Richard Woolley was there. Smart was there. He was
still alive at the time. Gave lectures. I've got
the lectures here somewhere. I don't know where.
Boring writer. Oh, well, yeah. I didn't think too
much of his lectures. Cantopoulos' lectures were
very exciting. Michel Hénon was there. That was
when he was just beginning to do his work on chaos.
So it was a very worthwhile experience. The other
two students were David Morrison, who is what now
director of Ames, at Ames. Or something, yeah.
Yeah. And Jerry Newsome. who's in Ohio somewhere,
N-E-W-S-O-N-E.
And the other thing that we were talking about, you
mentioned Brian Marsden being at Yale. Brian, of
course, married Nancy while he was still a student
at Yale, decided that marriage was a pretty good
thing, had a cousin, which he Nancy had a cousin
that she thought she would like to fix up with one of
the astronomers because she was kind of
interested in astronomy, too. And I was the one
that got picked, and my wife, in fact, is Nancy
Morrison's cousin. And also,
yeah, Eric Beaujean. B-O-Z-Y-A-N, Arikel, it's
an Armenian name, who was a graduate student at
Yale at the time. His sister married my second
cousin, so there's another little connection
there. Probably useless information, but there
you are. You never know, you never know. Well, what
went on with Harlem at Yale? Well, he sort of just
was rather encouraging. I don't recall that I ever
took any lectures from him. I don't think I did. But
he was sort of an encouraging kind of a figure and
encouraged me to keep at this work on 373. Clearly,
he liked me. And I liked him. It was hard not to like.
I went to their home once. They had a sort of a party
for the graduate students. And we all sat around in
the room and played various games of sorts, which
he was very fond of, thought the family was very
fond of. What was his position at the time? Was he an
associate professor? He was an assistant
professor, I think, possibly associate. I'm not
sure about that. He did not have tenure. I guess. He
would not have had tenure. That was one of the
reasons why he came to Texas. Was he forced out of
there or not? And the reason is that Art Code says
that he wrote a very strong letter of
recommendation for Harlem and wrote an even
stronger letter back afterwards saying what
fools there were to let him get away. Well, we
graduate students, of course, weren't privy to a
lot of information of that sort. The impression
that we got, or at least that I got, was that he had
not
received tenure and that
I know the graduate students were rather upset
that he had left because they had a fairly good
opinion of him. I heard somewhere that he almost
took a job at the University of Virginia. I don't
know anything about that. Sorry, Frederick might
know. He's a good person to talk to. So that puts
Harlan in Austin. That puts Harlan in Austin. Long
about 1964, I kept in touch with him. He told me at
the occasion of the Texas Symposium, which was
November 1963, just after President Kennedy had
been assassinated, and the worthies of Dallas
were all worried about the image of their city,
because of course that's where it was held. And
after the meeting, he brought me down to Austin. We
drove down in Frank Edmonds' old Peugeot 403. You
remember that, don't you? And then I think that's,
yeah, that's right. And then we flew out to West
Texas, because he was trying to get Jim Douglas to
come here at the time. And we flew around the
Mitchell Flats area and saw where,
was that on a different occasion? I'm not sure that
that was that occasion or another occasion that I
came to Texas. because I came here twice before I
actually was hired. Visited Austin.
I think that may have been that trip, but Jim might
remember which two occasions it was. We sort of
flew around, and then we drove out there, I guess,
and looked at this optical flat at... this
wavelength piece of land and
saw the observatory. But anyway, on one of those
occasions, Harlan said that he would like me to
come here. This is before I finished my degree. And
along in 1964, Thornton
Page left about
64. He left the observatory, that's right. And he
went to Houston, I guess. I saw him in February.
Because he had an accident in which he'd lost a good
deal of the sight of one of his eyes. And I think that
was difficult for him to continue at Wesleyan in
the position that he was in. At any rate, he had
left. And
he was not there. And Heinz Eichhorn had gone. He
had left also. And so there I was. They needed
somebody to run the astrometry program. And so I
ran the astrometry program during that last year
when I was at Wesleyan. Harlan was afraid that I
wouldn't finish my dissertation. He was somewhat
trepidatious about it. So you were doing your
dissertation at Yale, but you were spending most
of your time at Wesleyan. A good deal of my time at
Wesleyan. I taught a course there.
But I did finish it up. And then Harlan had put my
name in for a Sloan fellowship, which I got. And so
the first year, Instead of going to Texas, I
resigned from Yale and accepted this position as
assistant professor here, but would leave for the
first year, which was kind of an unusual
arrangement. But so that I could take advantage of
this post-doctoral fellowship and the Slum
Fellowship. And what I did was I latched on to
Juergen Moser was a mathematician at New York
University at the Koran Institute, and who was one
of the three people whose name is in the Kahn
theory, the theory of the existence of
toroidal solutions to dynamical systems. It's a
very important theory these days. So, I studied
with him. He was very, from my point of view, a very
pure mathematician. Were you working on just
systems in general? We were working on dynamical
systems. When I was at NYU and also at Stanford,
because he took a sabbatical at Stanford and I just
followed him out there, we worked on a paper and
published a paper on the three-body problem, in
which we showed that certain There were solutions
of the real full three-body problem that were not
the standard triangular solutions that were
stable, and we described their properties and so
forth. I also worked on mercury. The fact that
mercury rotated in 59 days had just been
discovered, and we discussed that, and I
discussed that in terms of some of Moser's work. I
worked on some periodic... Solutions and the
Restricted Problem with Miles Standish, which we
published. And there were some other things, too.
I forgot what they were. So I took the fall in New
York City. The lights went out. Had a great time.
Went out to Stanford for the spring semester. In
this, what year was that? This was 1965, 66
academic year.
attended some lectures on quantum field theory
that Sidney Drell was giving in the math
department,
met some famous mathematicians, and generally
had a pretty good time. Then came here in the fall of
66, just after Charles Whitten shot all those
people off the tower. My father-in-law, we were
sitting around the television set. My
father-in-law turned to me after. Walter
Cronkite came out with his news and said, Bill,
isn't that where you're going with my daughter?
Having just gotten married in 1966 in June. Now,
since you've been here, what have you been working
on in general? How's that changed? Well, first few
years, I spent mostly working on various problems
in celestial mechanics. I built... a program to
study the surfaces of section in the restricted
three-body problem. And it did some work on an
atlas of those surfaces of section which give
information about stability regimes. Got
interested in non-numerical algebra
calculations, symbolic algebra calculations,
and wrote a processor to do that, and we used that on
some dynamic systems, some satellites in
particular. Did little observing, not a whole
lot, but Darryl Mulholland was here at the time,
Pete Shells was here at the time. Darryl and Pete
sort of got involved in observing satellites of
the outer planets, and I went out and did some of
those observations. And then along 1970, Seven or
eight, I've forgotten. Whenever the Space
Telescope project got started, we proposed to the
Space Telescope to be the astrometry team, and we
got that contract. That's what I've been pretty
much doing ever since. Haven't done so much
dynamical astronomy since then. There are
certain people that actually His name is David
Dvorkin, here at the Space Museum, who claims that
celestial mechanics isn't really astronomy.
Well, I can appreciate
that comment because celestial mechanics is very
closely related to mathematics. A lot of
mathematics has come out of it, but it's
mathematics which is applied to problems
planetary motion and also problems in stellar
astronomy. It's hard to draw the line because a lot
of what people have done in celestial mechanics is
also applicable to questions in galactic
structure or the structure of the rings of Saturn
and other planetary rings and so forth. So to say
that it is not astronomy at all I think is
stretching the case but it is more mathematical in
many ways than most areas of astronomy are. Well,
I'm going to include it anyway because Simon
Newcomb, after all, considered himself an
astronomer. He certainly was not a
spectroscopist. Right. Well, Brouwer
considered the definitely astronomical area of
astrometry to be the observational arm of
celestial mechanics. That was his term for it.
And, of course, Brower was responsible in large
part for reviving celestial mechanics in this
country and was pretty moribund. He came along and
established a number of summer institutes and
other opportunities for people to learn about
celestial mechanics and established at Yale a
very thriving group of people in celestial
mechanics who are now out in the world doing their
thing. Miles Standish, for example, has just
demonstrated, fairly convincingly, that there
is no Planet X. That was just within the past few
weeks that it was announced. So, he was part of that
group that was at Yale with me. You've mentioned an
interesting point, which is that celestial
mechanics was pretty dead feel in the, well even in
the 50s and 60s. Until satellites came along.
Until satellites came along, and then all of a
sudden people realized that they had to have
people that were trained in this area in order to
support not only the civilian space program but
also the military space program. Well, there was
what? There were Brower and Clements, and who was
it? Kurgut? Kurgut. And then a few people at the
Naval Observatory. Yeah, that was pretty much it.
Clements, of course, was at the Naval Observatory
at the time and came to Yale after he retired. There
was Boris Garfinkel, who's still active, at least
it was the last time I looked.
But Peter Musen, another one. You know, see, I did
my doctoral dissertation on radiation pressure
effects on our satellite
Ah yes, McVitie was another one of those. Vinty,
John Vinty, when he was at MIT. But that was, you
know, basically that was it. Yeah, and these guys
were all getting on in years. There were really no
young people involved in that field. They'd all
gone into astrophysics. And so what happened when
satellites became important was that a number of
people got interested in celestial mechanics and
dynamical astronomy that probably would not have
done so had it not been for that particular
evidence.
I want to get back to that, but I want to ask you now,
when did you show up? I think you mentioned it here
at UT. 66, August of 1966. Well, what was the
faculty like then? How many folks were there? I
think there were seven. Let me see. Let's see, Andy
Young was here,
Frank Edmonds was here, Bob Tull was here, Gerard
de Beauvelure, Harlan, of course,
Terry Deeney, myself. Is that seven? I think so. I
think I would have. And Jim Douglas. So I was the
eighth. I was the eighth person. There were seven
before I came. There was eight afterwards. And
this building hadn't been built. This building
had not been built. We were in the old physics
building, which is over near the tower.
This department's a lot bigger now, so is the
McDonald's staff. Better? Better. It is. Oh,
yeah. The young people that we've brought into
this department, some of them are really
outstanding. You just take a look at the prizes
that they've been taking home.
Did you, well, it's an obvious question. You're
taking NASA money now. Have you done so in the past
before the HST? Not personally. I did take some
NASA money. Indirectly,
Byron Tapley had some which I was using to support
some computing and also to support publication of
papers. I was involved also with this outer planet
satellite project that Darryl was the PI on.
But that was pretty much it. Well, you have had
recent experience.
How do you think NSA handles these things, either
in the past or today? I mean, do they micromanage?
Do they… Well, I've not been micromanaged. I can
only speak to my own experience. That's just
exactly what I want. I've been given fairly free
reign to do as I thought needed to be done. There
have been the first twelve or so years, however,
thirteen maybe, were a contract, not a grant. And
so there were certain reporting requirements and
so forth that were laid upon us. And there were
certain things that had to be done. So what was the
contract for? This was the contract
for the HST's astrometry science team, is what it
was called, something like that. Get the exact
name over from the people there. But it was run out
of Marshall. Most of the science team got their
money from Goddard. But you know how the HST
project was fragmented among several different
centers so that they could sort of spread the money
around. And Marshall had the prime contract with
the Optical Telescope Assembly. And the Optical
Telescope Assembly included the fine guidance
sensors. And the fine guidance sensors were the
astrometric instrument, in quotes. And
therefore, my money came from Marshall and not
from Goddard. Are you getting any results? Some.
It's been a long, difficult period for us. Yeah,
they can't show pretty pictures of what you're
doing. Well, that's part of it. And part of it has
been that not so much the optical problems,
although the optical problems do pose
difficulties for us, but they're of a different
nature And they are not the principal problem that
we have faced. The principal problem that we have
faced is, until fairly recently, the telescope
was not a very stable platform. The problems with
the solar panels, which bend when you go in and out
of the terminator, have caused a lot of stability
problems for us, in particular loss of lock
problems. And it wasn't until they finally got a
much better pointing control system algorithm in
the telescope that we were able to rely on it as a
platform and actually take the calibration data
that we needed to take. This parallel between
planetary astronomy and celestial mechanics is
pretty interesting in that both kind of died lousy
early in this century, and they were represented
by just a few people, and then when the space age
came, bang.
So let me ask you this. Let's talk about celestial
mechanics now. What was NASA's influence on that
the other day? Well, they've done pretty well
without N.A.S.A. funding or did it work?
Celestial Mechanics? Yeah. Oh, I don't think it
would have done well at all without the funding
that's come into it, particularly in the early
years because most of that, well, D.O.D. also
provided money for some of these efforts. Like to
me. Yeah. As a pacifist, I would have had
difficulty taking D.O.D. money and I've never
accepted DOD money with the exception of that trip
that I took to Turkey, which was actually under
NATO and not under DOD itself, although probably
the money originally originated there. Harlan
was also a Quaker, as I am, but he felt that it was a
good thing to take money from the Department of
Defense because it then could not be used for other
things. I don't think that that's a true
perception of the way things actually work, but
that's sometimes the excuse that he gave me.
So we differed in that respect. But I think that a
major portion of the money that went into
celestial mechanics did come from NASA. An awful
lot of, if you take a look at bibliographies and
acknowledgments on papers, you'll very often see
NASA support in many of those early papers. If you
go look around 1900, here's your big-time
astronomers, our celestial mechanicians, all
right? Simon Newcomb,
Moulton, Professor Moriarty.
And then, I mean, that was really the in thing, just
like gravitational
waves are now, or the way astrophysics was in the
1930s. Why did it die? I mean, did it run up against
the wall, or was it just there were so many other
things going on? Well, I don't know. That's an
interesting question. I've not really thought
about it terribly much. Clearly, fields only
continue to prosper if you can get new students
interested in those fields. I think that's a major
situation because in the 20s and 30s, there was, as
you correctly point out, a flowering of
astrophysics and people were going into that
field because now it was possible to learn things
about stars. Yeah, the hot shots like Menzel and
everything. It was possible to learn things about
stars that could not have been learned before This
was partly due to new instrumentation. It was also
partly due to the fact that you had quantum
mechanics, which enabled you to do correct
physics in a way that was not possible. We began to
understand why stars shine in a detailed way, and
we were able to make detailed to get a detailed
understanding of what the physics in the
atmospheres of stars was. And so that's where the
best minds went, because that's where the
interest was. That's where the cutting edge was.
And so people weren't going into celestial
mechanics, mostly. And people weren't going into
astrometry, mostly, even though there was and
still is a very, very great need for basic
astronomical data, they're not glamorous
fields. It takes too long to get a parallax. It
takes years and years to get the data to get a
parallax. And then you look back on your life and
you've published 30 parallaxes, or 40
parallaxes, or 100 parallaxes, and that's it.
When you could have
done something much splashier. And so I think
that's probably the reason. It's a combination of
things. Well, it is odd, because I got in on it just
while I went over to the astronomy department,
because they had just started their PhD program in
Illinois, and then the Russians put up
satellites. Yeah, I watched that satellite from
the roof of our house in 1957. We were doing it from
the observatory, too. And I was always like a year
or two behind the money. After a while an essay got
going and I started handing out money, but I always
just missed all that. Let me ask you about Harlem.
What's the first time you met him? I think the first
time I met him, I'm not absolutely certain of this,
he may have come to Wesleyan, and I might have met
him when he came to Wesleyan, but it didn't stick in
my memory. The first time I remember meeting him
was at the AAS meeting in 1965, which was held at
Yale. Oh, and that reminds me, there was one other
astronomical influence on my life that I don't
think I told you, that I didn't tell you about. and I
remember this because he was also at Yale. At
Michigan, there was an astronomer named Dean
McLaughlin. Now, in 1947, Dean McLaughlin, by the
way, worked for, during the summertime, he
moonlighted as a geologist for the Pennsylvania
Geological Survey. And in 1946... He predicted
volcanoes on Mars. Could very well be. I didn't.
didn't know that. But at any rate, in 1947 we had, I
was seven years old, we moved to a farm outside of
Philadelphia near Doylestown, which was in a town
called Chalfont, Quaker country. I do want to talk
a bit about that because Harlem is a Quaker and so
we've had some relationships along that line. But
at any rate, we moved out there. And one day, Dean
McLaughlin came wandering up the crypt bed that we
owned half of, looking for rocks, came knocking on
our door. Had my mother asking for some water or
something like that. My mother invited him in and
started to chat. It turned out he was an
astronomer. Well, he had a most marvelous
compass. You know, a magnetic compass with bells
and whistles and all these things on it that
geologists like to carry with them. And I was
fascinated by that. That was the first real
astronomer I ever met. We kept up with him, at least
my parents did, until he died. You know, Christmas
cards and stuff like that. But at any rate, that
meeting at Yale, I think, was the first time that I
actually met Harlan, although I'm not absolutely
certain about that. Miles Standish and I both went
to that meeting. We had a good time thinking about
all the papers on polarization of radio sources,
which was big in those days. We decided that all the
papers were exactly alike. The only thing that
changed was the name of the source and the percent
of polarization. Do you think Arlen could have
done even more if he'd done a little less? In what
way? Well, he was always driven. Always. And, you
know, one reason your heart muscle tends to last a
fairly long time is that it rests most of the time.
Or at least part of the time you cycle. And Harlan
never seemed to do that. No, he was certainly
always working. I don't know. I think that was just
the way he was. He, I don't think, would have been
comfortable not doing that stuff. Certainly, his
longevity was not affected by that. And that was a
completely different situation and just an
unhappy chance that he got the virulent cancer
that he did. So I don't think that that shortened
his life in any way.
Maybe one could argue that there are things he
might have applied himself to that would have been
more fruitful than some of the things that, in
fact, he did spend a lot of time with. But that's a
matter of judgment. And of course, anybody's
career is going to have things that . He did a lot of
things, so not everything is going to be at the same
level. Right, right.
Someone was saying the other day that Harlan was
really loyal and maybe carried that a little bit
too far in some cases. I think that that may be true,
yeah. There were projects which should have been
cut off sooner. You're talking Gribble Ball? I
think we're talking Gribble Ball in particular. I
think that was the one project that was most
visible and to which a large amount of money, you
know, a comparatively large amount of money went
without any real What
do you think is the status of astronomy at the
University of Texas now? I think we're a pretty
good department. Do the higher-ups care about
that? You mean over in the tower? You mean the big
shots? I think they do, to a certain degree. We've
got a new president now, and I don't know how clued
into the excellence of our program he is. And
so we'll find out in due course, I suppose. I always
felt that we got support from Bill Cunningham
while he was president, and he's now down in the
system, so I think he still does support us.
They've put their prestige where their mouths are
in the sense that they've decided to go ahead with
the SST project, which is, I think, a very
important project for our department. Now, I
guess I should talk to the people at SST. And, well,
I'm going to be talking with Tom Barton about that,
too. But it always seemed to me weird, the way this
thing's been going on, that, you know, well, you
can't really go out and get money. I always thought
that the way to run a place was to say, go get all the
money you can get. And, you know, I mean, gee whiz.
I'll tell you one thing. When I was in
headquarters, when Harlan was here, when the
107-inch telescope opportunity came along, What
was his name? Dr. Death. You know, the president of
Boston University. Oh, you mean John Silber, yes.
John Silber was the dean. And he didn't go fooling
around. What, NASA wants to give us $3 million for a
telescope? Hell yes. That was it, you know. Well,
the difference is that with the SST, the money has
to be privately raised. And
I think the administration was concerned that...
the money that we, A, might not be able to raise all
the money that we needed, or that, and this is
another important thing, or that, B, we would
raise the money that we said that we needed and it
would turn out to cost more than we thought. And I
still think that they do have in mind the 107-inch,
which was well over budget. I remember that very
well. Tell me, Harlan's One of the people I can't
interview, the other one is Kuiper. Tell me
something about
Harlan. Tell me all you know about Harlan. All I
know about Harlan, well, that's all. You know,
please send me everything you have on this ground.
I'm not interested in his great scientific
accomplishments or anything. My fondest
memories of Harlan are as a friend.
He recognized my talents in a way more than I
recognized my own, certainly when he first met me.
And he laid opportunities in my path that I might
not have had otherwise.
He and Joan joined the friends meeting
Connecticut. I don't know which monthly meeting
it was. Joan would be able to tell you that. Back
when they were there and in fact even today I think
one of Joan's very closest friends is was a member
of that meeting and
They still live in Connecticut. They came down
here during the time that Harlan was ill and then
after he died and really played a very major role in
helping the family through this crisis. Charles
Chu and I've forgotten his wife's name. That's
terrible.
Betty, I think it is. but I'm not absolutely
certain of that. But, again, you can ask Joan about
that. By the way, I did see her in January at the AAS
meeting, the DPS, too late, Dave Howland, the big
award. And she's agreed to do some interviews. I'm
going to see Jim Douglas tomorrow morning. He's
going to bring what he has. Right. And so, at any
rate, when we came to Austin, I had... When I was
young, I had attended the Friends Meeting out in
Doylestown, Pennsylvania, when we were out there
in the countryside there. My father, although he
was an Episcopal clergyman, he was going through a
crisis at that point. And so we started attending
the Friends Meeting there. And I got introduced
and always liked the Quakers. And when we came
here, we joined this meeting. Harlan and Joan had
already transferred their membership down here.
And we've been involved with Friends Meeting here
for quite a long time, since about 25 years.
So, you know,
I have memories of Harlan making ice cream for the
Friends Meeting. Peach ice cream, it always
seemed to be. It could have been vanilla, but very
often it was peach. He loved it. And he'd bring the
old hand-wound ice cream freezer to meeting, and
we'd all take turns cranking it, and then we'd have
it for dessert after our potluck lunch on some
Sunday, some hot Sunday. And that was wonderful.
And he would have the meeting over to his home for
Christmas on a number of occasions.
They had wonderful toys in that house. Puzzles,
really solid mathematical type puzzles that the
kids owned. Real mind benders. Real mind benders.
And they were the kind of puzzle that would last
forever. Not something that would break five
minutes after you got it. And
so I always felt that that was a very wonderful kind
of thing Well, why don't you just...